# Disclaimer of Warranties

You acknowledge that the Content is in research phase and all outcomes from use of the Content are not known. 
YOUR USE OF THE SITE AND THE CONTENT LOCATED ON THIS SITE AND ANY LINKED SITE, INCLUDING THE DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS, IS AT YOUR OWN RISK. 
THE SITE AND ITS CONTENT, INCLUDING THE DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS LOCATED ON THE SITE OR ANY LINKED SITE, ARE PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” AND “AS AVAILABLE” BASIS.

COSMIC MEDICAL MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES OR COVENANTS, WHETHER STATUTORY, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, BY COURSE OF COMMUNICATION OR DEALING, OR OTHERWISE WITH RESPECT TO THE CONTENT, INCLUDING THE DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS, AND ANY RESULTING DEVICE. COSMIC MEDICAL SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTY WITH REGARD TO FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY OR NON-INFRINGEMENT. 

WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, COSMIC MEDICAL MAKES NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND THAT THE CONTENT, INCLUDING THE DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS, AND ANY RESULTING DEVICE OR THE RESULTS OF THE USE OF SUCH DEVICE WILL MEET YOUR OR ANY THIRD PARTY’S REQUIREMENTS, OR ACHIEVE ANY INTENDED RESULT OR THAT THE USE OF THE DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS TO MAKE A DEVICE WILL COMPLY WITH INTERNATIONAL, FEDERAL, STATE OR MUNICIPAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS REGARDING MEDICAL DEVICES OR MEDICAL USES. YOU EXPRESSLY ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT COSMIC MEDICAL IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY HEALTH PROBLEMS, INJURIES OR DEATH THAT MAY RESULT FROM YOUR OR ANY THIRD PARTY’S USE OF ANY DEVICE RESULTING FROM YOUR USE OF THE CONTENT, INCLUDING THE DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS. IT IS UNDERSTOOD THAT COSMIC MEDICAL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL OR OTHER HEALTH-RELATED ADVICE.

COSMIC MEDICAL DISCLAIMS ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR OR ASSURANCES REGARDING THE QUALITY, FUNCTIONALITY, OR SAFETY OF ANY DEVICE RESULTING FROM YOUR USE OF THE CONTENT, INCLUDING THE DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS, OR ANY DEFECT, ERRORS OR MALFUNCTION IN CONNECTION THEREWITH. FURTHER, COSMIC MEDICAL DISCLAIMS ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR OR ASSURANCES REGARDING ANY COMMENTS, FEEDBACK, INFORMATION OR OTHER KNOW-HOW UPLOADED TO THIS SITE OR ANY LINKED SITE BY ANY USER. YOU RELY ON USER COMMENTS, FEEDBACK, INFORMATION AND/OR KNOW-HOW SOLELY AT YOUR OWN RISK.

YOU UNDERSTAND AND ACKNOWLEDGE THAT: YOU ARE A LEARNED INDIVIDUAL THAT HAS HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO OBTAIN ANY AND ALL INFORMATION RELEVANT TO THE USE OF ANY DEVICE RESULTING FROM YOUR USE OF THE

CONTENT, INCLUDING THE DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS; YOU HAVE NO OBLIGATION TO USE THE CONTENT, THE DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS OR ANY DEVICE RESULTING THEREFROM AND YOU DO SO IN YOUR SOLE DISCRETION; YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR DETERMINING THE DEGREE OF MONITORING OR OVERSIGHT THAT IS APPROPRIATE IN CONNECTION WITH PATIENT CARE AND THE USE OF ANY DEVICE RESULTING FROM YOUR USE OF THE CONTENT, INCLUDING THE DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS; YOU HAVE ACCEPTED ALL RESPONSIBILITY AND COSMIC MEDICAL RETAINS NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR YOUR USE OF ANY RESULTING DEVICE; AND YOU WILL COMPLY WITH ALL LAWS AND GOVERNMENTAL RULES, REGULATIONS AND GUIDELINES, INCLUDING ANY SAFETY PRECAUTIONS, THAT ARE APPLICABLE TO THE DEVICE OR THE USE THEREOF.