### SRS-0000:  Start ventilation
Upon system power-on, gVent **shall** default to timed-mode pressure-control ventilation (PCV).
This requirement might not reflect the final behaviour of the system. 

### SRS-0001:  computation of breath cycle duration
Related to: [SLS-0055.](SLS.md#SLS-0055)
The {duration of a breath cycle} **shall** be determined between breaths (i.e., just before starting a new inspiration) according to the \<selected respiratory rate>.  
This means that gVent will compute the length of the next breath cycle before starting this breath cycle.
The {duration of a breath cycle} is given in ms.  
The computation is as follows:  60 000 / <selected respiratory rate>. The {duration of a breath cycle} is in ms. The division is an integer division. Utilisation of an integer division is acceptable in this case since the RR is given in breath per minute the  error introduced by this division is not significant. 
The {duration of a breath cycle} is an input to the ventilation SRS requirements SRS-0010 and SRS-0025.

### SRS-0002:  computation of circuit pressure
The {circuit pressure} **shall** be determined as the mean of the \<measured inspiratory pressure> and the \<measured expiratory pressure>. The computation is as follows: (\<measured inspiratory pressure> + \<measured expiratory pressure>) / 2. The division is an integer division. This is acceptable since a +/- cmH20 error in the circuit pressure is acceptable.  
The {circuit pressure} is an input to the ventilation SRS requirements SRS-0010, SRS-0015, SRS-0020, and SRS-0025.  
  
### SRS-0003:  impossible computation of circuit pressure
Related to [SRS-0002.](SRS.md#SRS-0002)
If either of the  \<measured inspiratory pressure> or the  \<measured expiratory pressure> necessary to compute the circuit pressure is not available, gVent **shall** transition to DSS in less than TIME_TO_TRANSITION_TO_DSS_CSP ms.   
A measured input such as the  \<measured inspiratory pressure> or the  \<measured expiratory pressure>  is not available when the platform returns the unavailable value. This could be caused by the sensor not sending any values or the value sensed being outside of the valid bounds. 

### SRS-0004 : RR default failsafe value
If the \<selected respiratory rate> is not available the RR **shall** be set equal to the default failsafe value (see table for value).  
The value for respiratory rate selected by the clinician is not available when the platform returns the unavailable value. This could be caused by the clinician never setting this value or setting this value outside the validity bound for this value, or any other error in the hardware leading the platform to read a value out of the validity bounds.

### SRS-0010: PC timed mode start inspiration
Related to: [SLS-0055.](SLS.md#SLS-0055)
While in ‘timed mode’, at the start of the current breath cycle, if the {circuit pressure} *is less than or equal to* MAX_CIRCUIT_PRESSURE_FOR_OPENING_INS_VALVE_CSP cmH2O gVENT **shall** command the inspiratory valve to open. 

### SRS-0011: PC timed mode start inspiration pressure to high
Related to [SRS-0010](SLS.md#SLS-0010), [SLS-0055.](SLS.md#SLS-0055)
While in ‘timed mode’, at the start of the current breath cycle, the {circuit pressure} is greater than MAX_CIRCUIT_PRESSURE_FOR_OPENING_INS_VALVE_CSP cmH2O, gVent **shall** transition to DSS in less than TIME_TO_TRANSITION_TO_DSS_CSP ms. 

### SRS-0012: PC timed mode start inspiration closes expiratory valve
Related to: [SLS-0055.](SLS.md#SLS-0055)
While in ‘timed mode’, at the start of the current breath cycle, if the {circuit pressure} is less than or equal to MAX_CIRCUIT_PRESSURE_FOR_OPENING_INS_VALVE_CSP cmH2O gVENT **shall** command the expiratory valve to close. 

### SRS-0013: PC timed mode start inspiration closes tank valve
Related to: [SLS-0055.](SLS.md#SLS-0055)
While in ‘timed mode’, at the start of the current breath cycle, if the {circuit pressure} is less than or equal to MAX_CIRCUIT_PRESSURE_FOR_OPENING_INS_VALVE_CSP cmH2O gVENT **shall** command the tank valve to close. 

### SRS-0015: PC timed mode end inspiration
Related to [SRS-0010](SLS.md#SLS-0010), [SLS-0055.](SLS.md#SLS-0055)
While in ‘timed mode’, at the start of the current breath cycle, the {circuit pressure} is greater than MAX_CIRCUIT_PRESSURE_FOR_OPENING_INS_VALVE_CSP cmH2O, gVent **shall** transition to DSS in less than TIME_TO_TRANSITION_TO_DSS_CSP ms. 


### SRS-0020: PC timed mode start expiration
Related to: [SLS-0055.](SLS.md#SLS-0055)
While in ‘timed’ mode,  \<selected inspiration time> ms after the start of  the current breath cycle, if the {circuit pressure} is less than MIN_CIRCUIT_PRESSMIN_CIRCUIT_PRESSURE_FOR_OPENING_EXP_VALVE_CSPURE_FOR_OPENING_EXP_VALVE_CSP cmH2O,  gVENT **shall** command the expiratory valve to open and tank valve to open.  
Note: VALVE_CLOSING_TIME_CSP is used to ensure under normal conditions that the inspiratory valve is closed before the expiratory valve opens.

### SRS-0021: PC timed mode start expiration
Related to: [SLS-0055.](SLS.md#SLS-0055)
While in ‘timed mode’, VALVE_CLOSING_TIME_CSP milliseconds after the end of the inspiratory for the current breath cycle,  if the {circuit pressure} is greater or equal than the MIN_CIRCUIT_PRESSURE_FOR_OPENING_EXP_VALVE_CSP cmH2O, gVent **shall** transition to DSS.

### SRS-0025: PC timed mode end expiration
Related to: [SLS-0055.](SLS.md#SLS-0055)
While in ‘timed’ mode, VALVE_CLOSING_TIME_CSP milliseconds (<1000) before the end current breath cycle, gVENT **shall** command the expiratory valve to close and tank valve to close.

## DSS

### SRS-0050 DSS definition
In DSS all the valves shall  be open.

### SRS-0051 DSS led
In DSS gVent shall turn on the alarm led.

### SRS-0052 DSS sound alarm
In DSS gVent shall turn off the alarm buzzer.

### SRS-0053 DSS display
In DSS gVent shall display “DSS”.

### SRS-0054 DSS persistence
Once gVent has transitioned to the DSS, it shall remain in the DSS indefinitely, until it is power-cycled.

## Alarm Requirements
Reference: https://www.notion.so/Alarm-Documents-790364c4ae0842dabbaa4d9f6f67821b#a75de7f03972482d9c61786357f3d80f use this as the basis of alarms

### ALA5 
#### SRS-0104: computation of {running breath count}
Related to: ???
Every ALA5B_FREQUENCY_CSP ms, the {running breath count} shall be computed as the running average of the number of times the inspiratory valve changes from open to closed in BREATH_COUNT_TIME_CSP ms.
ALA5B_FREQUENCY_CSP = 1 second
BREATH_COUNT_TIME_CSP  = 30 seconds

#### SRS-0105: High RR Alarm LED (ALA5B)
Related to: ???
gVent shall turn on the alarm led if {running breath count} is greater than <acceptable breaths per minute averaged over 30 sec>.

#### SRS-0106: High RR Alarm Buzzer On (ALA5B)
Related to: ???
gVent shall turn on the alarm buzzer if {running breath count} is greater than <acceptable breaths per minute averaged over 30 sec>.

#### SRS-0107: High RR Alarm Buzzer Off (ALA5B)
Related to: ???
gVent shall turn off the alarm buzzer if {running breath count} is lower than <acceptable breaths per minute averaged over 30 sec>.

#### SRS-0108: High RR Alarm display (ALA5B)
Related to: ???
gVent shall write the alarm level (i.e., ???) on the LCD if {running breath count} is greater than <acceptable breaths per minute averaged over 30 sec>.
The breaths per minute is calculated then averaged over 30 seconds, the calculated value is compared to the value specified by the cilician on the device. If the calculated value is greater than the set value then the high RR alarm will be triggered.

### ALA9

#### SRS-0110: Low Tidal Volume Alarm (ALA9)
Related to: ???
gVent Shall turn on Low Tidal Volume Alarm if <measured exhaled tidal volume> is less than the <acceptable exhaled tidal volume value>.
If the exhaled tidal volume is measured below the tidal volume value specified by the clinician on gVent then the Low Tidal Volume Alarm will be triggered.

### ALA7

#### SRS-0120: Low PEEP Alarm (ALA7B)
Related to: ???
gVent Shall turn on Low PEEP Alarm if <measured pressure at the expiratory end> is below <acceptable/set low PEEP value> and is sustained for more then MAX_TIME_BELOW_PEEP_CSP.
If the positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) is measured below the specified value, for more than a specified time period, trigger the Low PEEP Alarm to indicate the presence of a leak or disconnect in the system. For a period less than the specified time do not trigger the Low PEEP Alarm as it is an acceptable low PEEP event for assisted breathing, or a cough.

### ALA ??? 

#### SRS-0130: High Airway Pressure Alarm ()
Related to: ???
gVent Shall enable the buzzer and LED, including showing values on screen, of High Airway Pressure Alarm if <measured pressure at inspiratory end> is gradually increasing instead of decreasing and is sustained for more than <(add time duration of pressure)> at <(add normal inspiratory pressure, need to look if there is a standard for this)>. 
For events where the period is less than <(probably a short time period)>, do not trigger alarm.

## Dictionary

The names of configurable System Parameters are in all-uppercase, e.g., `VALVE_CLOSING_TIME_CSP`.
The names of inputs are enclosed within matching angle brackets, e.g., <selected respiratory rate>.
The names of the defined values are enclosed within braces, e.g., {circuit pressure}.

**Pressure Control** – A form of controlled ventilation, where the clinician sets a specific pressure that the ventilator delivers to the patient. The amount of volume delivered at that set patient varies based on patient factors (eg the ability of the lungs to expand (compliance)).

**Peak Inspiratory Pressure (PIP)** – The highest level of pressure that is applied to the lungs during inhalation.

**Standard Liter Per Minute (SLPM)** - Flow rate unit of measurement.

**\<selected /respiratory rate>** – Minimum number of breaths per minute.

**\<selected /inspiration time>** - The duration of an inspiration as selected by the clinician.

**\<selected I:E ratio>** – the ratio of inspiration/expiration in one breath cycle. 

**\<selected tidal volume>** – The lung volume or the volume of air displaced between inhalation and exhalation.

**\<measured expiratory pressure>** – The measured pressure in cmH2O at the inspiratory valve.

**\<measured inspiratory pressure>** – The measured pressure in cmH2O at the inspiratory valve.

**\<acceptable/set low PEEP value>** - The value for lowest acceptable PEEP value as set by the clinician into the machine. 

**\<acceptable breaths per minute>** - The value for the acceptable number of 
breaths per minute as set by the clinician.  This is an average rate for 
30 seconds.

**\<measured exhaled tidal volume>** - The exhaled tidal volume measured by the system.

**\<measured minute volume>** - The sum of the tidal volume over the last minute. 

**\<acceptable exhaled tidal volume value>** - The acceptable exhaled tidal volume value as inputted and specified by the clinician on the device. 

**{circuit pressure}** – The instantaneous pressure seen by the patient in cmH2O. The degree of precision for this is ???. 

**{number of breaths per minute averaged over 30 seconds}** - The measured Breaths Per Minute of the System averaged over 30 seconds.

`VALVE_CLOSING_TIME_CSP` – the normal amount of time in ms required for either valve to fully close upon command from the fully open position.

`MAX_CIRCUIT_PRESSURE_FOR_OPENING_INS_VALVE_CSP` – The maximum pressure in the circuit in cmH2O so that the inspiratory valve may be opened.
 
`MIN_CIRCUIT_PRESSURE_FOR_OPENING_EXP_VALVE_CSP` – The minimum pressure in the circuit in cmH2O so that the expiratory  valve may be opened.
 
`MAX_PRESSURE_CSP` – The maximum circuit pressure in cmH2O  that can be applied to the patient lungs. 

`MAX_PRESSURE_PERSISTANCE_CSP` – the maximum time in ms for which the pressure can be `MAX_PRESSURE_CSP` without endangering the patient.

`MIN_PRESSURE_CSP` – the minimum circuit pressure in cmH2O that can be applied to the patient lungs.

`MIN_PRESSURE_PERSITANCE_CSP` – the maximum time in ms for which the pressure can be `MIN_PRESSURE_CSP` without endangering the patient.

`MAX_TIME_BELOW_PEEP_CSP` – the maximum time in ms for which the pressure can be below <acceptable/set low PEEP value> before triggering the Low PEEP Alarm (ALA7B).

`BREATH_COUNT_TIME_CSP` - the number of ms that is used to compute the {running breath count}.
